# dravidian-codemix.github.io
Sentiment Analysis of Dravidian Languages (Tamil, Malayalam and Kannada) in Code-Mixed Text 2021 <br/>
Visit: https://dravidian-codemix.github.io/2021/ <br/>
Contact us: dravidiancodemixed@gmail.com

Track description
Sentiment analysis is the task of identifying subjective opinions or emotional responses about a given topic. It has been an active area of research in the past two decades in both academia and industry. There is an increasing demand for sentiment analysis on social media texts which are largely code-mixed for Dravidian languages (https://dravidian-codemix.github.io/2020/). Code-mixing is a prevalent phenomenon in a multilingual community and the code-mixed texts are sometimes written in non-native scripts. Systems trained on monolingual data fail on code-mixed data due to the complexity of code-switching at different linguistic levels in the text.  This shared task presents a new gold standard corpus for sentiment analysis of code-mixed text in Dravidian languages (Tamil-English, Malayalam-English, and Kannada-English). 

Tamil language is spoken by Tamil people in India, Sri Lanka and by the Tamil diaspora around the world, with official recognition in India, Sri Lanka and Singapore. Kannada and Malayalam are a Dravidian language spoken predominantly by the people of Karnataka, and Kerala,  India. The Tamil script evolved from the Tamili script, Vatteluttu alphabet, and Chola-Pallava script. It has 12 vowels, 18 consonants, and 1 āytam (voiceless velar fricative). Minority languages such as Saurashtra, Badaga, Irula, and Paniya are also written in the Tamil script. Tamil scripts are explained in Tolkappiyam (dating 5,320 BCE) as Eluttu" means "sound, letter, phoneme", and this covers the sounds of the Tamil language, how they are produced (phonology). It includes punarcci (lit. "joining, copulation") which is combination of sounds, orthography, graphemic and phonetics with sounds as they are produced and listened to. Both Kannada and Malayalam scripts are alpha-syllabic, belonging to a family of abugida writing systems that is partially alphabetic and partially syllable-based. However, social media users often mix Roman script for typing because it is easy to input.  Hence, the majority of the data available in social media for these under-resourced languages are code-mixed.

The goal of this task is to identify sentiment polarity of the code-mixed dataset of comments / posts in Tamil-English, Malayalam-English, and Kannada-English collected from social media. The comment / post may contain more than one sentence but the average sentence length of the corpora is 1. Each comment / post is annotated with sentiment polarity at the comment / post level.  This dataset also has class imbalance problems depicting real world scenarios. Our proposal aims to encourage research that will reveal how sentiment is expressed in code-mixed scenarios on social media.. 

The participants will be provided development, training and test dataset.
Task A: This is a message-level polarity classification task. Given a Youtube comment, systems have to classify it into positive, negative, neutral, mixed emotions, or not in the intended languages. 
